What resulted from this was a list of 7 meta-skills that almost all employers agreed were essential to success for young people in today’s modern workplace. In addition to the 7 meta-skills above—due to the rapidly evolving employment and tech landscape—we added one more meta-skill on Tech Ecosystems.

The 8 Meta-Skills Are:
Leading Self	
Leading Self
Those skilled at leading self see “failure” as a learning opportunity. They pursue their vision even through adversity. They use all of their real-world experience for growth.

Key characteristics:

Self-awareness
Proactivity
Lifelong values
Self-improvement
Self-regulation


Leading Others	
Leading Others
Today’s employers seek people who can take charge when the situation requires it, defines a project’s direction, and collaborates with co-workers.

Key characteristics:

Empathy
Diversity
Relationship building
Feedback
Collaboration


Entrepreneurial Thinking	
Entrepreneurial Thinking
You don’t have to be an entrepreneur to benefit from entrepreneurial thinking. People with this mindset pursue their vision even through adversity. They see their real-world experience as an opportunity to learn and grow.

Key characteristics:

Systems thinking
Identifying opportunities
Human-centered thinking
Creativity and innovation
Continuous iteration


Quantitative Reasoning	
Quantitative Reasoning
Employers want quantifiable results. The ability to collect and evaluate data and use it to determine the most effective and efficient way to approach problems is a very valuable skill.

Key characteristics:

Data contextualization
Uncertainty and modeling of the real world
Empirical research
Data-based decision making
Quantitative problem solving


Managing Complex Tasks	
Managing Complex Tasks
The ability to look at a complex project from multiple perspectives is another highly sought-after skill.

Key characteristics:

Scoping
Structuring
Planning
Coordination
Execution


Communication for Impact	
Communication for Impact
Your brilliant ideas will do you no good if you can’t effectively share them with others. A deep understanding of your audience is just as important as what you say and how you say it.

Key characteristics:

Audience awareness
Writing process
Voice
Organizing for effective communication
Storytelling and presentation


Critical Thinking	
Critical Thinking
Today’s successful professionals don’t jump to conclusions or assume outcomes—they critically examine facts and carefully consider solutions.

Key characteristics:

Authentic inquiry
Evidence/Research analysis
Arguments and judgement
Synthesis


Tech Ecosystem	
Tech Ecosystem
In addition to the 7 meta-skills above, you will be learning one extra meta-skill. We’re throwing in this bonus because as tech professionals, it’s also critical.

Of course, as you venture out into the world to become leaders in technology specifically, it is also crucial that you have the appropriate tech ecosystem awareness to be able to succeed in your chosen tech tracks and leverage all the tools that are available to today’s modern workforce.

Key characteristics:

How to work in Technical and Product Teams
Tech tools
Ethics in tech
Technical literacy
Tech track specialization



The Meta Skills that makes me different 